update release process with more details gathered during 0.8 release (#235)
kyma-project/community: guidelines/releases/release-process.md

This section only applies to new major and minor versions. Follow the preparation steps at any point in time.

1. Define these release jobs in the `test-infra` repository:
   - for every component

>    - for every tool

Author: fixed in updated version

   - for every test
   - `kyma-docs`
   - `kyma-integration`
   - `kyma-gke-integration`
   - `kyma-gke-upgrade`
   - `kyma-artifacts`
   - `kyma-installer`

>     >**NOTE:** Read [here](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/blob/master/docs/prow/release-jobs.md) how to define a release job for a component.

Author: yes, definitely!

The file should contain a release version following the `{A}.{B}.{C}` or `{A}.{B}.{C}-rc{D}` format, where `A`,`B`, `C`, and `D` are numbers.
If you define a release candidate version, a pre-release is created.

    >**NOTE:** make sure the RELEASE_VERSION file has only one single line:  
    `echo -n $RELEASE_VERSION > prow/RELEASE_VERSION`

3. Push the branch to the `test-infra`  

4. Create a PR to test-infra/release-X.X. This will trigger the pre-release job for watch-pods

### kyma-project/kyma
1. Create a release branch in the `kyma` repository. 
   >**NOTE:** Do it only for a new release, not for a bugfix release.
The name of this branch should follow the `release-x.y` pattern, such as `release-0.6`.

    ```bash
    git fetch upstream
    git checkout -b $RELEASE_NAME upstream/master
    git push upstream $RELEASE_NAME
    ```

2. Create a PR for the `kyma` release branch.
    ![PullRequest](../../assets/release-PR.png)
    This triggers all jobs for components.
    
   1. Update your PR with the version and the directory of components used in `values.yaml` files.

      Change these values in the files:

>       ```yaml

Reviewer: Should we mention that:
Although tools/kyma-installer/kyma.Dockerfile has `ARG INSTALLER_DIR=eu.gcr.io/kyma-project/develop`, it should not be changed

Author: documentation says: change all yaml files, so the Dockerfile is already excluded

      dir: develop/
      version: {current_version}
      ```

      Replace them with:

      ```yaml
      dir:
      version: {rel_version}
      ```    

      >**NOTE:** replace only `develop/` so `develop/tests` becomes `tests/`

      Every component image is published with a version defined in the `RELEASE_VERSION` file stored in the `test-infra` repository on the given release branch.

    2. check all yaml files for references in the form of:  
      `image: eu.gcr.io/kyma-project/develop/{{IMAGE_NAME}}:{{SOME_SHA}}`
      and change them to:  

>       `image: eu.gcr.io/kyma-project/kyma-installer:{{RELEASE_NAME}}`

Reviewer: I think making it clear about installation/resources/installer.yaml with `image: eu.gcr.io/kyma-project/develop/installer:<release-tag>` is necessary

>       `image: eu.gcr.io/kyma-project/kyma-installer:{{RELEASE_NAME}}`

Author: fixed

1. Create a release branch in the `kyma` repository.  
    Do it only for a new release, not for a bugfix release.
    The name of this branch should follow the `release-x.y` pattern, such as `release-0.6`.

    ```bash
    git fetch upstream
    git checkout -b $RELEASE_NAME upstream/master
    git push upstream $RELEASE_NAME
    ```

2. Create a PR for the `kyma` release branch.
    ![PullRequest](../../assets/release-PR.png)
    This triggers all jobs for components.

    1. Update your PR with the version and the directory of components used in `values.yaml` files.

        Find these values in the files:

        ```yaml
        dir: develop/
        version: {current_version}
        ```

        Replace them with:

        ```yaml
        dir:
        version: {rel_version}
        ```

        > **NOTE:** Replace only `develop/` so `develop/tests` becomes `tests/`.

        Every component image is published with a version defined in the `RELEASE_VERSION` file stored in the `test-infra` repository on the given release branch.

    2. Check all `yaml` files for the following references:  
        `image: eu.gcr.io/kyma-project/develop/{{IMAGE_NAME}}:{{SOME_SHA}}`

>         Change them to:  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        Change the references to:  
```

              labels:
                kyma-project.io/installation: ""
            spec:
              template:
                metadata:
                  labels:
                    name: kyma-installer
                spec:
                  serviceAccountName: kyma-installer
                  containers:
                  - name: kyma-installer-container
                    image: eu.gcr.io/kyma-project/develop/installer:55bc6038
                    imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
             ```

3. If any job fails, trigger it again by adding the following comment to the PR:

    ```;
    /test {job_name}
    ```

    > **CAUTION:** Never use `/test all` as it might run tests that you do not want to execute.

4. Wait until all jobs for components and tools finish.
5. Execute remaining tests. The diagram shows you the jobs and dependencies between them.
    ![JobDependencies](../../assets/kyma-rel-jobs.svg)
    1. Run `kyma-integration` by adding the  `/test pre-{release_number}-kyma-integration`  comment to the PR.
        > **NOTE:** You don't have to wait until the `pre-{release_number}-kyma-integration` job finishes to proceed with further jobs.

>     2. Run `/test pre-{release_number}-kyma-installer` and wait until it finishes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    2. Run `/test pre-{release_number}-kyma-installer` and wait until it finishes.
```

>     1. Run `/test pre-{release_number}-kyma-artifacts` and wait until it finishes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. Run `/test pre-{release_number}-kyma-artifacts` and wait until it finishes.
```

This section only applies to new major and minor versions. Follow the preparation steps at any point in time.

1. Define these release jobs in the `test-infra` repository:
   - for every component
   - for every tool  
     Exceptions:

>      - prow/jobs/kyma/tools/docsbuilder/docsbuilder.yaml

Reviewer 3: failery shouldn't be released as well

Author: updated

    To see all release jobs for the 0.6 release, look for job names with the `pre-rel06` prefix.
    Since every job name has to be unique, prefix it with `pre-rel{XY}`.
    Define the release jobs on the `master` branch since Prow reads the job configuration from the `master` branch of the `test-infra` repository.

2. Ensure that tests for release jobs exist. Release tests usually iterate through all release versions and run tests for them.
See the `TestBucReleases` test defined in `development/tools/jobs/kyma/binding_usage_controller_test.go` as a reference.
To add tests for all jobs for the new release, update the `GetAllKymaReleaseBranches()` function
defined in the `development/tools/jobs/tester/tester.go` file under the `test-infra` repository.

3. Define branch protection rules for the release branch in the `prow/config.yaml` file.
    For example, see the release-0.6 definition:

    ```yaml
    release-0.6:
      protect: true
      required_status_checks:
        contexts:
          - pre-rel06-kyma-integration
          - pre-rel06-kyma-gke-integration
          - pre-rel06-kyma-artifacts
          - pre-rel06-kyma-installer
    ```

## Release

> > **IMPORTANT:** Never use `/test all` as it might run tests that you do not want to execute!

Reviewer 2: I'm just wondering if it's the right place for this note. It's also present later on, when retriggering jobs is mentioned. But I don't see a reason to have it here 🤔

>
> **NOTE:** Currently it is most likely required to push to the release-X.X branch more than once. Make sure that someone with admin permissions on github.com/kyma-project/kyma is available  
> Before every release you need to bump the version in github.com/kyma-project/test-infra `prow/RELEASE_NUMBER`. This requires the approval of a member of wg-prow!  

Follow these steps to create a release:

### kyma-project/test-infra

1. Create a release branch in the `test-infra` repository. The name of this branch should follow the `release-x.y` pattern, such as `release-0.6`.

    ```bash
    git fetch upstream
    git checkout -b $RELEASE_NAME upstream/master
    ```

    >**NOTE:** This point only applies to new major and minor versions.

2. Ensure that the `prow/RELEASE_VERSION` file from the `test-infra` repository on a release branch contains the correct version to be created.
The file should contain a release version following the `{A}.{B}.{C}` or `{A}.{B}.{C}-rc{D}` format, where `A`,`B`, `C`, and `D` are numbers.
If you define a release candidate version, a pre-release is created.

>     > **NOTE:** make sure the RELEASE_VERSION file has only one single line:  

Reviewer 2: Let's move it out of the note, since the text becomes a bit crammed with notes.

```
Make sure the `RELEASE_VERSION` file includes just this single line:  

` echo -n $RELEASE_VERSION > prow/RELEASE_VERSION`
```

>     > `echo -n $RELEASE_VERSION > prow/RELEASE_VERSION`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   
```
This line was merged with the previous sentence.

> 3. Push the branch to the `test-infra`  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Push the branch to the `test-infra`  repository.
```

> 4. Create a PR to test-infra/release-X.X. This will trigger the pre-release job for watch-pods

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Create a PR to `test-infra/release-x.y`. This triggers the pre-release job for watch-pods.
```

### kyma-project/kyma

1. Create a release branch in the `kyma` repository.

>    > **NOTE:** Do it only for a new release, not for a bugfix release.

Reviewer 2: The text below was pulled to the note - could you add it right after the first sentence in this step?

The name of this branch should follow the `release-x.y` pattern, such as `release-0.6`.

    ```bash
    git fetch upstream
    git checkout -b $RELEASE_NAME upstream/master
    git push upstream $RELEASE_NAME
    ```

2. Create a PR for the `kyma` release branch.
    ![PullRequest](../../assets/release-PR.png)
    This triggers all jobs for components.

    1. Update your PR with the version and the directory of components used in `values.yaml` files.

>         Change these values in the files:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        Find these values in the files:
```

        ```yaml
        dir: develop/
        version: {current_version}
        ```

        Replace them with:

        ```yaml
        dir:
        version: {rel_version}
        ```

>         > **NOTE:** replace only `develop/` so `develop/tests` becomes `tests/`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        > **NOTE:** Replace only `develop/` so `develop/tests` becomes `tests/`.
```

        Every component image is published with a version defined in the `RELEASE_VERSION` file stored in the `test-infra` repository on the given release branch.

>     2. check all `yaml` files for references in the form of:  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    2. Check all `yaml` files for the following references:  
```

        `image: eu.gcr.io/kyma-project/develop/{{IMAGE_NAME}}:{{SOME_SHA}}`

>         and change them to:  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        Change them to:  
```

        `image: eu.gcr.io/kyma-project/{{IMAGE_NAME}}:{{RELEASE_NAME}}`

>         known files to change:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
       Change the known files include:
```

        - `installation/resources/installer-local.yaml`
        - `installation/resources/watch-pods.yaml`
        - `resources/application-connector-ingress/templates/upgrade-job.yaml`

>         Don't change the following reference:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        Don't change the following file:
```

        - `installation/resources/installer.yaml`:  

            ```yaml
            apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
            kind: Deployment
            metadata:
              name: kyma-installer
              namespace: kyma-installer
              labels:
                kyma-project.io/installation: ""
            spec:
              template:
                metadata:
                  labels:
                    name: kyma-installer
                spec:
                  serviceAccountName: kyma-installer
                  containers:
                  - name: kyma-installer-container
                    image: eu.gcr.io/kyma-project/develop/installer:55bc6038
                    imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
             ```

3. If any job fails, retrigger it by adding the following comment to the PR:

    ```;
    /test {job_name}
    ```

    > **IMPORTANT:** Never use `/test all` as it might run tests that you do not want to execute!

4. Wait until all jobs for components and tools finish.

> 5. Execute remaining tests

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Execute remaining tests. The diagram shows you the jobs and dependencies between them.
```

    ![JobDependencies](../../assets/kyma-rel-jobs.svg)
    1. Run `kyma-integration` by adding the  `/test pre-{release_number}-kyma-integration`  comment to the PR.

>         > **NOTE:** You don't have to wait until the `pre-{release_number}-kyma-integration` job finishes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        > **NOTE:** You don't have to wait until the `pre-{release_number}-kyma-integration` job finishes to proceed with further jobs.
```

>     2. Run `kyma-installer`

Reviewer 2: For this line and the next lines:

To keep the pattern and make the doc consistent, I would go either with 

```
Run `kyma-installer`.  

``` 
**OR**

```
Run `/test pre-{release_number}-kyma-installer` and wait until it finishes. 

```
and remove the next line.

Author: option 2 it is

    ```/test pre-{release_number}-kyma-installer``` and wait until it finishes

>     3. Run `kyma-artifacts`

Reviewer 2: As above, use either 

```
Run `kyma-artifacts`.  

```
OR
```
Run `/test pre-{release_number}-kyma-artifacts` and wait until it finishes. 
```
and remove the next line.

Author: option 2

    ```/test pre-{release_number}-kyma-artifacts``` and wait until it finishes

    4. Run `kyma-gke-integration` and `kyma-gke-upgrade`. You can start them in parallel.

>     5. Wait for the jobs to finish

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    5. Wait for the jobs to finish:
```

         - `kyma-integration`
         - `kyma-gke-integration`
         - `kyma-gke-upgrade`

> 6. If you detect any problems with the release, such as failing tests, wait for the fix that can be delivered either on a PR or cherry-picked to the PR from the `master` branch.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. If you detect any problems with the release, such as failing tests, wait for the fix that can be delivered either on a PR or cherry-picked to the PR from the `master` branch.  
```

Author: i cannot see any difference

>     Prow triggers the jobs again. Rerun manual jobs as described in *Step 5 (Execute remaining tests)*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Prow triggers the jobs again. Rerun manual jobs as described in **step 5 **.
```
